# CS-330: Module 8 Journal

## How do I approach designing software?
A major design skill I took away from this project (and this class as a whole) was the union of writing code and translating that into computer generated graphics. I had not had any previous experience with OpenGL other than its use in video games, so recreating a scene using primitive objects and applying lighting and textures to make it more realistic was an entirely new experience for me. In following a design process, I tried to stick to the provided rubrics as much as possible, as if they were a client's list of requirements. Additionally, I used the provided sample project as a reference in the event I didn't quite understand how a certain function was supposed to work. For my future work, while I don't have any current plans on pursuing computer graphics specifically, I can use the skills developed in this project as a starting point for becoming more familiar with a different application of programming in the technology industry, as opposed to typically thinking of web or application development.

## How do I approach developing programs?
While I had worked with C++ previously, its use along with OpenGL was an entirely new experience for me. It felt like I was learning the basics of a new programming language, as I often had to reference documentation as well as review some math concepts (specifically vectors and matrices) to fully understand how a function was supposed to work. Working on this project also led to a far more iterative development process than I was used to. When putting together a scene, I would end up recompiling the project after something as small as changing a single value to ensure the changes I was expecting were reflecting properly in the rendered scene. As I progressed through the project, I became more comfortable and familiar with the syntax used with OpenGL and the various aspects of applying lighting to objects. By the time I was working on my final submission, I was comfortably able to test new ideas or improvements to my code without fear of modifying code that I didn't understand.

## How can computer science help me in reaching my goals?
Computational graphics and visualizations provided a new and enjoyable way for me to broaden my overall programming skillset. I had previously been familiar with 3D modeling using software like Blender, but creating an entire scene was a challenge. I ended up having to revisit several computer science concepts that I had not used in a long time (such as the use of vectors). Given that I don't encounter these concepts when writing code day-to-day, reviewing these subjects and learning how to translate abstract math to a physical space provided me a better understanding of the close relationship between math and computer science.
